A new building, even a beautiful one, won't correct all the problems built up over a century.
But it seems a vast improvement in the city's support for its livelihood, and it adds lustre to the cultural climate, both are long overdue.
Coming up next, a beautiful spring flower could blossom into murder, unless their Hugo Poirot can stop here.
San Francisco Library's original KQED, just so there is Michael.
Anyhow, that will give you some ideas.
Okay.
Is that all in one tape or is that two tapes?
No, it's all in one tape.
Oh, that's great.
Okay, perfect.
These are your paintings in the walls.
Right.
There are actually computer terminals and all of them.
Is there something that I should read into that?
No, it's just one series.
That particular one is called Turning Forms.
Okay.
What's the medium?
Oil.
So, let's see this stuff.
Now that speech that Coulter made, this annual forum thing, he talks about the diversity situation and how they came upon it and how they decided to utilize it, etc., etc.
It's a very interesting little talk.
The thing about the diversity centers is they've never been challenged in court.
Because in San Francisco, you can't really well do that.
You mean the affinity centers where they were called?
Right.
For the affinity groups.
Lots of us are not thrilled with it because it messes with the public space.
It's an unfair thing.
And if you would, in truth, give same space allotments to every group in this city, you'd need something a lot bigger than all the Civic Center to begin to approach that.
So it doesn't belong, in our view, mine and a handful, the rest of us, it doesn't belong in the public library simply because it artificially divides people yet again, rather than bringing them in closer.
Because what they should be bound together over is the fact of the library and its contents, not the color of hair, the color of skin, the preferences that an individual may come with.
The MLU, at some point, you're going to need to know that this is their permission to have parties.
It's a memorandum of understanding between the city and the library, which the library has failed to.
They promised $300,000 a year for which they were going to be paid $150,000 in order to raise $300,000.
The first year they raised $50,000.
They decided they might not charge us the full amount.
because they didn't raise $300,000.
The interesting aspect of that is that their promises notwithstanding, this is very bizarre, and was ran through the Board of Supervisors by the mayor, and there were seven or eight copies of this, and I managed to get...it took me until April 21st, 1997, to get a copy of this signed.
And I started asking about the same time last year.
What accounts for your passion for this project?
I'm a political illustrator.
I trade.
Graphic artist.
I'm kind of an unusual example.
I just don't like people that count in the public on a grand scale, and these people have done that.
$240 million project.
When you add in the cost of the funds to build the library, the cost of the bonds and all the rest, it's $240 million.
Taxpayer money.
We got ripped off royally.
Cheated from, stolen from, and it's still going on.
We had basically three questions, which is where are the books, what happened to the money, and when are you going to do an audit of both?
And that started in September.
Where are the books?
What happened to the money?
And when are you going to do an audit?
And the mayor, so far, we still have not found answers to any of those three questions.
We've changed the number of the personnel around, but we still haven't got the answers we saw, which is kind of interesting.
Dallin was forced to leave after only nine months in his dream that it took him over nine years to build.
Now, if it's such a wonderful thing, why did it take that short of time?
For instance, here's the footage numbers on the library, and this piece of paper is
That goes to, this is Frontlines.
That's who Carlos Petrini is.
He's the editor of Frontlines.
He asked me specifically about the footage.
I measured all that.
Suzanne Slade is my other half.
Your other half.
And did you kind of come in this through Suzanne?
Yes.
Are you a library person?
No.
A book person, but not a library person.
We have books, yeah.
But you're a political person, certainly, and we have a taste for politics.
The kind of stuff I do is what I do.
Okay, and this is for whom, might we ask?
Different characters, different people.
How would you characterize your work?
How would I characterize it?
Ritistically.
Well, I'm one kind, actually.
You do calendars, I see.
You do job work.
I do books.
I've done 92 covers for Black Lizard Books.
I worked for... Grove Crest is a book publisher.
Yeah.
Dust Jackets.
Oh, I see you did a book for Ray Bradbury.
Is that right?
The Washington Post.
Do you have something like that printed that I can have?
I don't have one.
I'll get you one.
All right.
Well, you're just good as a explanation.
Just so I can place you in time, you know, in place.
How old are you, Jim, if you don't mind telling me?
Fifty-seven.
Between your contemporaries?
You see, I thought that this was going to take about two, three months, just a matter of, you know, making a few things public, and it would get fixed.
And then I realized the size of the machine we were up against, and it became personal, and, uh... How do you mean it became personal?
Well, they basically told us to go peddle our papers, that we weren't really going to affect anything, and this was going to be the end of it.
Have you ever been involved in anything like this before?
I've been involved with LBJ on the negative side.
But I mean to this degree.
Oh, yeah.
But I've never come in at this level.
Usually I'm on the other end.
I'm on the top side of the thing.
What do you mean?
Well...
I was very active with the California Supreme Court, and some of the things that went on there.
I worked for the Attorney General, I worked for the Attorney General of Oklahoma, California.
In what capacity?
I worked for illustration.
Really?
For the state.
I'm very, very good at what I do.
Indulibly.
It changes legislation, things about legislative change, and it impacts
what people think.
Well, when you do stuff for a political, a bureaucratic body, where is it placed?
Where is it published?
Magazines, newspapers, that kind of thing.
How did they get it out?
They got PR people, and that's the way it goes.
That's very interesting.
Attorney General had it printed in a magazine, 100,000 copies, which most of which he took to Washington with it.
Got himself elected.
He was a state senator at the time.
He got elected Attorney General based on that.
They were...he was instrumental in the late 70s in creating for California the Forgotten Victims of Violent Crime, which led to a Victims' Bill of Rights.
I thought that I was doing something that had to do with people who didn't have any voice.
What it was really all about from the get-go was George Duke Major becoming politically viable in other venues, and I got burned by the whole thing, and I
kind of pretty much swore off and quit, actually, over that for about ten years until this thing came along.
And I thought, well, you know, how difficult can this be?
This is open and shut case.
It's black and white.
You either have the books or you haven't got the books.
You either throw them away or you haven't thrown them away.
Hello?
Have an audit.
Let's find out.
How much money did you spend?
Are you Californian, Jim?
No.
Oh, let me see.
Uh-huh.
The, uh,
The problem with this kind of thing, you know, these kinds of things come and go, and era to era they change so that the part of politics that I grew up on would have lynched these people a long time ago.
In Oklahoma, we would have done it with baseball bats.
But this is California, and it's the 1990s, and you can't even threaten anybody, much less pick up a baseball bat.
So the way to do this is with the quorum and in the public eye.
And with organization.
But in the organization, what you have to have are a lot of different kinds of people.
And so what we have, nobody designed the organization.
It just came about.
How did you come together?
Over the speech.
Nick Baker gave a speech.
Did you know these people, Walter?
None of us knew each other, as far as I can tell.
There may have been one or two who had some familiarity.
Timothy Galestri was a mover and shaker who was brought in pretty much for the same reason that I was.
He brought himself in because he heard about it, and he thought, like I did, that this was something that could be fixed.
With a little bit of risk and nitty-gritty, we could get in there and do something.
So he started going to meetings, and he was getting frustrated, and then this speech thing happened, and a whole bunch more people started going to the meetings.
And they had people there that had been there anywhere from one year to five, seven years that were basically burned out after getting shot down time after time by Mr. Coulter and the commission.
And so some of the new blood came along and gave them increased hope for some positive change because Mr. Coulter and Mr. Dowland suddenly had difficulty handling things like political cartoons and severe letters to the editor.
We've produced something like
I don't know, between all of us, maybe four or five hundred different articles have come out, letters to the editor, magazine stories.
In this file I've given you is the Philadelphia Inquirer, Baltimore Sun, L.A.
Times, San Diego Union, some of the stories you might not have seen.
In addition to Newsweek, and Newsweek just did another one not very long ago.
They've done two now.
And the girls, the librarians will know.
It's been on the major television stations in the Bay Area.
It's been on CNN.
It's got a reach that I didn't really expect, but partly why that is is because what the Library has tried to do is such an egregious violation of the public trust.
It's so
opposed to what the people... 78% of the population voted for this.
78%?
Yes.
Voted for this new library and all this money for the books, unaware that Mr. Dowling had no intention of giving them books.
The money went to computers when they spent it at all.
And they'd been using it for everything from candy bars to custodial supplies, but not for books.
And...
You know, had the public known what the administration had in mind, it simply wouldn't have happened.
Let's talk straight.
What's going on?
Why?
That's the $64 million question.
Why do this?
What's in it for these certain people?
There's usually a reason for this.
There obviously is a reason.
Do they really believe that books are dead and that there's no place for the printed book?
No, no, no.
Now this returns to old-time politics, which is follow the money trail.
Three-quarters of the problem is that we have not been absolutely successful in tracking the money trail.
We can't find out why a particular individual does a particular thing.
We know that it's not because of civic spirit.
We know that it's not because they love books.
What we are unable at this point to determine is why they are behaving in the fashion which they would seem that there's a direct monetary connection.
Having said that, it's also incumbent upon those people who might suggest this to come up with, okay, prove it.
And proving it is what's taking so long.
It is very difficult to pin down.
And so we're looking very hard and turning over every rock there is to see if we can find the money connection, because that's what it's about, either now and or in contract form.
In the file, I've given you some stuff on Pacific Bell and its philosophies having to do with telephone service for the four and what happened after they got hooked up with SBC.
What is SBC?
Southwestern Bell, okay.
Southwestern Bell now owns Pacific Telesis and Pacific Bell, which makes them the second largest communications company in America.
They are a major player in the world, and their philosophy having to do with high technology and kind of billing rates, they went from, while their books purchases were frozen, we went from 300 computers to 400 computers.
We don't know how that happened.
because we were screaming poor mouth, and suddenly we have another hundred computers, which are not cheap.
But we can't get any books, and you saw what happened to the periodicals, and you'll see when you see Brooks Hall what happened to the older things.
Well, much of what's in Brooks Hall used to be in the locked case collections in the Old Main.
And the reason McDowell put them there was because they didn't circulate, you know.
And since they didn't circulate, they obviously aren't any good.
Might as well throw them away.
Nobody's ever seen them.
How did Brooks Hall get involved in the equation?
How did they get pulled into the equation?
Brooks Hall got into the equation backwards.
What happened was they got caught doing adopt-a-book and things like that.
Adopt-a-book was a case of where they could take the books they were planning on weeding and sell them to the public or give them to the public.
At one point, Donald was doing this every Friday.
So this was kind of a smokescreen interview?
No, no.
We stopped the Department of Public Works trucks from carting them out of there by the dump truck full.
So Adopt-A-Book came after... After the dump trucks got stopped.
Then came Adopt-A-Book and we stopped that.
Because of publicity.
They finally had to... And then they kept on leading.
But now they can't get rid of them.
They're stuck with them.
So, because it's very... They got finger-cut with their pants down.
Big time.
And now, of course... They can't get rid of them, and they can't stop.
The PR is enormous, and so now they had to find... They're damn lucky that a place like Brooks Hall existed, aren't they?
Brooks Hall sitting there is a deserted convention center, and it is connected by tunnels to the main.
So, it bailed them out to a degree.
To a degree, but now that we have been noticing the DPW trucks are going down there weekly again.
And we have no way of knowing what's in Brooks Hall.
It's offering this to the public.
Are books still being disposed of?
Yeah.
That's a question, isn't it?
Sure.
But we have no way of knowing this, we in the public.
Are books still being... Do we know what books are down there?
No.
We know some of what's down there.
Nick Baker is going to give me... He finally got, you know, the 32.
He's got a list of supposedly all the books.
It's on a disc.
He's going to copy it for me.
Well, Mr. Biller and I looked real hard, and he spent about 500 hours on it.
And you met Walter through this?
Yeah.
Do you have a name for your group, or it's just a group?
Well, originally, when we first started, it was called Edith Cedar Group.
Say again.
Edith Cedar.
Edith?
Cedar.
S?
Or C. C-E-D-A-R.
And who is Edith Cedar?
It was a street corner.
Two streets, Edith and Cedar.
What's the significance of the streets?
We were just driving, and we decided that we needed to call it something, and we couldn't figure out what to call it, so we decided a couple of streets.
The intersection of a street was fine.
So that's what we came up with.
So you happened to be driving and those two streets were there, Edith and Cedar?
Right.
So it's not where you meet, it's not where anybody lives, it just happens to be two streets.
Well, it's near someone who had, at the time, a considerable problem, but it was very near Melissa, and Melissa was
But the name really has no great significance.
No, we just thought it sounded like a nice librarian.
I don't want to be too picky here.
I'm curious.
No, it just sounded like a librarian.
It didn't sound like Macho City or somebody with a sledgehammer.
We wanted something that wouldn't set anybody off.
that we could use.
The People's Mobilization Committee to stop the disruption of our cultural heritage.
That would really be great, right?
That would do it, wouldn't it?
Also, we had a diverse group in terms of what the group really seriously wanted.
The group did not want to go macho.
The group was composed in part of librarians, half a dozen maybe, and the rest were
There were some impassioned writers.
Tilly Ellison was one of them.
I've got to give her a call today, by the way.
She's expecting me.
I've talked to her once.
Okay.
Tilly, cut out some time because Tilly takes a while.
What do you mean?
Not up here.
Here.
She has a little difficulty getting it out.
But she's very sharp.
She's 80-something.
Anyway, she was part of this at the beginning.
Still part of it.
Active part of it.
And anyway, there were divisions in the group, as there are in most, about what way to go, what way to proceed.
Well, Bill Hale is particularly meeting-oriented, rule-oriented.
He loves rules.
And he wanted us to not ever talk to each other except in a formal meeting, which won't work.
So what we decided early on was the best and most effective way for us to function is for each of us to figure out what we would like to do and go ahead and do it and then tell everybody else what we did just so that we don't duplicate activities.
And that's kind of when we started functioning pretty well.
Mr. Gillespie is a PR person and he's really good at what he does.
Mr. Biller is
historical in nature.
Kind of an archivist, I guess.
Yeah, and a bit of an activist and passionate.
Well, he refers to the group as ourself, which amuses me.
I remember him, ourself.
Well, I think when he says self, he's talking about just a few of us that are active.
Because there are those of us who do things, and then there are those who write letters, and they think, and they talk, and they want to see things happen, but
Most of the time, they don't run out there and do something.
I mean, you know, the use of discretion to sell almost makes it a political action group, is what it is.
But you are, you know, there's no denying that.
It's just that we have all different kinds of people in the group.
Walter was with Nick when they counted books.
He was part of that invasion that Nick apologized for.
It was not an invasion.
They were let in.
somebody had a key, so they didn't break into the library to count the shelf space and all that, way back when.
It was Nick and Walter and two librarians.
But the point of it was that these individual people, it's amazing how much, how different we are and how much we're able to accomplish being as different as we are from each other.
But the common goal is to make that library a habitable place for a library to exist.
That's the common goal.
And initially it was Dowling, and then it became Coulter.
It has to be removed, because Mr. Coulter's activities over the long haul in particular, but even, and most especially lately, has just, I mean, the man is, you'll see when you start reading this stuff, he's just unbelievable.
I mean,
At one point he wanted to organize, he wanted to appoint a citizens committee to replace the public so that we would have a diverse citizens committee made up of blacks and whites and purples and oranges and gays and lesbians and all kinds of stuff, right, that was not going to the meetings.
And we apprised him of the fact that all of us have the same notice, the same people show up at the meetings every time he hates us.
Visibly, he is disturbed by us.
And there are papers in there, transcript tapes, I mean, transcriptions of tapes from Library Commission meetings, where he says, you know, I look out here every week and I see this, and I don't see any people of color, and I don't see any gay people.
Well, why don't they come?
Because it's a futile effort, unless you're willing to do battle.
What I'm saying is, if you don't go, don't bitch.
You get no complaint.
That's what the people at the meeting said.
Mr. Coulter said, we're not getting anything done, this is a waste of the public's time.
He said,
Hello, we are the public.
We are the public.
You represent us, not the other way around.
Colfer didn't wait.
He was hell-bent on doing this.
We managed to stop him.
There's letters to the mayor and all that.
Carry on.
Finally, that went away.
How often do they meet?
Once a month, supposedly, when they don't cancel.
Do they have an agenda?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Well, Mr. Gillespie and Mr. Chafee have been suing them regularly over violations of the Sunshine Ordinance and the Brown Act, both of which have to do with open meeting laws, because they regularly... Mr. Coulter has no respect whatsoever for law, and they meet illegally all the time.
What's his background?
I mean, does he have any... He came from the Nevada State Legislature.
Nevada.
He was a state rep in Nevada.
Coulter, was this Nevada State?
We're asking him about that.
We haven't been able to find out anything.
That's a very interesting little thing.
He's telling me you heard that he has legislative experience.
I understand maybe from the state of Nevada.
See if he wants to talk about that.
Anyway, in some way, he got into the phone company situation.
He is part of the gay community.
A fact that the gay community would love to forget.
They are not pleased with him.
When he came out, he had a party at a commission meeting.
Really?
The gay community got him off to one side and urged him to go back and cause him pleased.
That's funny.
He's not a loved individual.
Why?
Because of why?
Because of not having nothing to do with being gay, having everything to do with his policies and the way he treats people at the library commission.
Who appointed him to the library commission?
The most recent one was Willie Brown, who initially appointed him, I'm not sure.
Audrey can probably tell you.
She's got all those records.
But the thing... Generally speaking, somebody gets appointed, and this is a pro bono thing, you know, get paid for this, I assume, right?
Right.
His own company's doing all right.
I don't know, I'm just saying, I'm talking superficial now.
No, in actuality, I think what you could say, you know, believable... So generally speaking, when you get appointed to one of these things, the rationale is, well, this person has been involved with libraries all his life and he has a demonstrated interest.
No, no, no.
Actually, what it is is not so much libraries.
Any city commission can do... It's a very clubby thing, and it's a political thing, and you do it for your own self-interest down the road.
I mean, this is the whole idea.
It's not so much that you're going to make a fortune out of being on this commission or that.
It's that it's good for your political career.
It's a good thing to do politically.
wherever you happen to be in your business life or in your community life or whatever.
You said this guy's got AIDS, right?
Yeah.
How long does he have?
Well, just before he left on vacation, he looked like he had about a month.
And he got back to vacation and he looks like a totally rejuvenated man.
You don't think about talking HIV, you're talking AIDS.
Oh, that's serious.
Very, yeah.
Very, very.
But he is a
One wonders if he'll live long enough to see my book photos.
Two months ago, no, I know.
Two months ago, I would have said absolutely no.
But I looked at him at the last meeting, and the only thing that was different was he seemed to be on some kind of something to mellow him out.
But, he looks fine now, compared to what he did.
He was good to look corpse-like, and he had
He had a stomach like this.
And that's gone.
Well, it's reduced amazingly.
I mean, he was a very fit man.
I mean, he wears very expensive clothes.
I mean, this is something that's going to show instantly.
You wear a $1,500 suit, $2,000 suit, I mean, you just don't have room for this.
Not when you obviously go to the gym every day and all that stuff.
You know, so he was, personally, I understood, very sick.
And I also understand that this kind of tension and stress is not good for that disease.
It accelerates it.
But Mr. Coulter is a survivor, whatever else he might be.
This is one tough cookie, and you are not going to get rid of him easily.
Because if that were possible, he would have been gone a long time ago.
We have done a lot with Mr. Coulter, but apparently not enough.
And how about the city in large?
Is the city...
Open cesspool.
Alert to what you're doing?
Oh, yeah.
They laugh.
I think it's just really funny.
I mean, people come up to me on the street and say.
They think you're nuts or what?
Oh, no.
They know I'm not nuts.
No, no, no.
They just say, eh, well, I see you got your back this time, didn't they?
You know, so it's kind of a convivial thing.
I mean, it's not blood in the streets we're talking about.
You got him that time.
You know, he got you this time, you know, back and forth.
So there is a back and forth.
But the true nitty-gritty, the way the city really works, the mayor is the only person in the city government that's allowed to give a press conference.
No city head is allowed to speak to the press.
You will be fired instantaneously for that.
We just finished fixing a campaign for $535 million worth of new ballpark for the Niner.
Mm-hmm.
And the mayor doesn't think, and he thinks he can walk on water.
I mean, he's a believer now that there is nothing that can touch him, and it's getting completely out of hand.
He's offered an amendment to the Constitution, the state Constitution, that does away with, not Constitution, charter, city charter.
City charter, do away with competitive bidding.
Bad thing gets in the way of business.
You know, and on the other hand,
I would have said the mayor was going to definitely be a one-term mayor if there's anything left to give away after he's done.
But nobody's in the wings.
There's nobody going to run against him.
He fired 300 people when he took office.
He only appoints people who do exactly what he says.
And if there's too much flack, he'll still get rid of them.
And that's possibly the only reason we would have succeeded is because it's becoming very uncomfortable.
It's the reason that we came up with the posters.
We decided to make it a little more uncomfortable.
You will see, I mean, this gets boring after a while.
And does, you know, when are you going to deal with this guy?
So, obviously he doesn't want to release him because he represents a major connection to the phone company.
Now, the phone company has a no-bid contract with the city, which is, on the face of it, completely illegal.
If you have more than one company in a given field,
You cannot have a no-bid contract in the city.
It's not allowed.
We have several fund companies here.
They have a sweetheart deal with the city, and that's it.
The sweetheart could, for what?
To provide what?
Fund service.
For the whole city?
Yeah.
For all city governments, city agencies, offices, computers, all that.
What do you think these other companies could provide that service?
Or came in with the money?
They'd certainly bid on it, couldn't they?
It's a hell of a contract.
They'd certainly bid on it.
But they weren't off of a chance.
It's an ugly thing.
You'll hear Peter Byrne's name mentioned a couple, three times in the course of this.
Now, he has a newsletter called the San Francisco Investigators.
He's an ex-private eye and a very interesting man.
And he's got a couple of numbers on the city and what it's...
requirements are and are not.
And it turns out PG&E, which is the gas and electric company, the phone company, and a couple of others, are major benefactors for not just one project, but many.
Willie Brown's major constituency that supported him in getting into office were construction companies.
And when you take a walk around Civic Center, you just count the number of cranes down there.
And that's not the only place this is going on.
massive building programs.
I mean, Moody's bound rating for the city dropped to an A3.
The next step down is B, and we have really played fast and loose.
If something serious happens, the city just simply has no money.
We're broke.
The only difference is the mayor's presenting it as though good times are here again, folks.
And if you don't know how much money the Treasury has or how much you owe, they just keep dipping in there, taking out handfuls.
And the library is just a large eyesore that's sitting there.
This is supposed to be the jewel in the city's crown.
It's turning out to be a really big rotten apple.
And the mayor's sick of hearing about it, if you want another trick.
But, you know, he's... Well, getting rid of him would accomplish what?
Beyond getting... Mr. Coulter?
Yeah.
Well...
Mr. Coulter's agenda is to get rid of the union.
He's designed this thing.
His point is to eliminate the unions from the library and to do away with anything like a book purchase program.
He was in love with Mr. Dowling's plan for the city library, which pretty much is the same plan as these guys had.
The Omni Group and Becker and Hayes, December 14, 1987, commissioned studies.
These kinds of things, the inexplicable part is why they, why now?
Where's the profit for you and me?
I mean, if you and I look at the situation in the houses, a couple of guys in America,
So, I mean, you're not going to get rich stealing a library area.
How the hell can you do that?
Right?
It doesn't make any sense.
A phone company gets paid every time you click on and off the Internet.
And for some reason... Are you sure?
Yes.
Access fee.
Is it a flat rate fee, or is it every time somebody goes on?
Well, you may have noticed that SBC is fighting the fence.
They want the libraries to pay full price.
They don't want a break for schools or libraries when it comes to high technology and phone service.
So they're actually suing the government, force the government to let them charge libraries and schools full price.
Now, Mr. Coulter is a major executive with that company that is doing that very thing.
While as the head of the Library Commission, he is supposed to be arbitrating.
for special rates paid by the library to the phone company.
How does that square?
I mean, all these dual things that don't make any sense.
There's an old phrase called conflict of interest, you know.
Even the appearance of itself.
Yeah, I know.
It would have brought the house down any other place, but it doesn't seem to bother anybody around here.
Conflict of interest abounds.
You know, it just happened in Oklahoma City, we'd have lynched those people.
They'd stolen those many books and done all this weird stuff.
Dow was talking about, what do you say, two and a half million books?
Yeah, right.
That's 720,000 when we counted them about three months ago.
720,000 in the system?
Sound like two and a half million to you?
It does.
So, we found out that we made some technical errors, but even...
allowing for the correction based on the technology, which automation furnished us, it still didn't clear a million.
So where are the other million and a half?
You tell me.
These are serious questions.
I mean, there are questions in there, in Kofa's file and Dallin's file, that you might want to just read the short...
correspondence, so that when you talk to the gentleman in question, there's some of that stuff you can convert to some interesting questions.
I'm sure that, you know, maybe you'll finally succeed in finding out stuff we've been unable to find out.
Well, you know, you guys are full-timers here working on this.
Not really.
I mean, I'm working on two books, a deck of cards,
I'm currently being evicted from my apartment, among other things.
So I'm kind of busy, busy, born besides the library.
And it could be very interesting.
Condo conversions or something?
Bastards.
Well, the guy that's buying the building is one of Willie's building inspectors.
The guy who owns the building is one of Willie's confidants.
He's the point man on China for Willie.
He went to China with him the last time he...
He advises Willie on situations to do with Singapore, Hong Kong, and the local Chinese community.
I don't think the sale of the building has to do with Willie, however.
I think it really has to do with some family matter within my landlord's, which is very interesting that those two things should coincide.
And it happened just about the time things got very uncomfortable at the library for Mr. Brown.
Right about the time exactly when I first surfaced with one of
really nasty cartoon about, will it?
And where was it published?
Where are these cartoons?
No, this cartoon, well, Frontline's a published one, but they're a freebie, they're not a regular paper.
This was, we just put out news releases on fax, on the internet, and we let the world know that this was going on.
Some of our things get responded to in a big way.
Other things go unnoticed.
I mean, no response at all.
Sometimes it's great.
Like we got Brooks Hall covered with that one cartoon of Willie.
He called up every, his office called every news facility in the city and said, do not cover this story.
Channel 4 ended up covering Brooks Hall.
And Channel 4 is owned by the Chronicle, which is, we call it the Brownicle because it's so pro-Willie.
But his office called them six times in the morning and said, don't cover the story.
So they went to Brooks Hall.
They shot the story.
They came back, and they called six more times.
And don't air it.
They aired it.
So he spent all this political capital buying off ABC not to run the story on Brooks Hall.
And his own damn station does it.
Wow.
But, you know, it's, I don't know, it's like San Francisco's always been kind of,
rough, around the edge, you know, that, what do they call it, Barbary Toast Syndrome.
49ers, Gold Rush, and all that kind of stuff.
And there is an element of wild about it.
But this is, I mean, we have this foundation, is a group of upper crust people, many of whom are very prominent citizens, and some of those, I'm sure, will give you a good interview.
On the other side of the fence, they're as much involved in this as I am, but from the opposite point of view.
I'm sure we'll not have a whole lot of nice things to say about us, but anyway, that's America.
So, the idea is that the library is a stepchild.
The city is SOVs.
Symphony, Opera, and Ballet are the three things that it cares about.
Graphic arts and libraries are right out the window.
It's just, you know, everybody, every place has its own little things in San Francisco.
Never developed an attachment for
books or paintings.
The gallery scene here is terrible, and the library is equally bad.
I lived here back in the late 60s, and I worked in this little city, Worcester, which is our art museum.
I've always said it was better.
Worcester has a magnificent art museum.
See, I mean, every city has its thing that it does, you know.
Well, we could care about books, too, like that.
Listen, I think I'm going to, we've got two hours in here, and I'm going to go back, because I want to go over some of the stuff.
A lot of what I'm saying.